IForm binding /5 (#29312)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/minimal-apis/includes/parameter-binding8.md

Options that apply globally for an app can be configured by invoking <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.HttpJsonServiceExtensions.ConfigureHttpJsonOptions%2A>. The following example includes public fields and formats JSON output.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/7.0-samples/WebMinJson/Program.cs" id="snippet_confighttpjsonoptions" highlight="3-6":::

Since the sample code configures both serialization and deserialization, it can read `NameField` and include `NameField` in the output JSON.

#### Configure JSON deserialization options for an endpoint

<xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequestJsonExtensions.ReadFromJsonAsync%2A> has overloads that accept a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions> object. The following example includes public fields and formats JSON output.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/7.0-samples/WebMinJson/Program.cs" id="snippet_readfromjsonasyncwithoptions" highlight="5-8,12":::

Since the preceding code applies the customized options only to deserialization, the output JSON excludes `NameField`.

## Binding to forms with IFormCollection, IFormFile, and IFormFileCollection

> Binding tp forms using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormCollection>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFile>, and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFileCollection> is supported. [OpenAPI](xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi) metadata is inferred for form parameters to support integration with [Swagger UI](xref:tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Binding from form-based parameters using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormCollection>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFile>, and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFileCollection> is supported. [OpenAPI](xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi) metadata is inferred for form parameters to support integration with [Swagger UI](xref:tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger).
```

The following code uploads files using inferred binding from the `IFormFile` type:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding/samples8/Iform/Program.cs" highlight="17-22,43-57":::

> ***Warning:*** When implementing forms, the app ***must prevent*** [Cross-Site Request Forgery (XSRF/CSRF) attacks](xref:security/anti-request-forgery). In the preceding code, an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.IAntiforgery> parameter is used to prevent XSRF attacks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Warning:*** When implementing forms, the app ***must prevent*** [Cross-Site Request Forgery (XSRF/CSRF) attacks](xref:security/anti-request-forgery). In the preceding code, the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.IAntiforgery> service is used to prevent XSRF attacks by generating and validation an anti-forgery token:
```

:::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding/samples8/Iform/Program.cs" highlight="24,44":::

> 

Reviewer: Crosslink to the XSRF docs?

> For more information on XSRF attacks, please read https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/anti-request-forgery?view=aspnetcore-7.0

Since the preceding code applies the customized options only to deserialization, the output JSON excludes `NameField`.

## Binding to forms with IFormCollection, IFormFile, and IFormFileCollection

Binding tp forms using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormCollection>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFile>, and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IFormFileCollection> is supported. [OpenAPI](xref:fundamentals/minimal-apis/openapi) metadata is inferred for form parameters to support integration with [Swagger UI](xref:tutorials/web-api-help-pages-using-swagger).

The following code uploads files using inferred binding from the `IFormFile` type:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding/samples8/Iform/Program.cs" highlight="17-22,43-57":::

> [!WARNING]
> When implementing forms, the app must prevent [Cross-Site Request Forgery (XSRF/CSRF) attacks](xref:security/anti-request-forgery). In the preceding code, an <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Antiforgery.IAntiforgery> parameter is used to prevent XSRF attacks:

> :::code language="csharp" source="~/fundamentals/minimal-apis/parameter-binding/samples8/Iform/Program.cs" highlight="24,44":::

Author: New content here.
